[NOISE] I'm going to continue
to talk about data types, and
basic operations in R.
In particular in this video I'm going to
talk about subsetting objects in R.
So there are a couple of different
operators that you can use,
to extract subsets of diff, of R objects.
There's the single bracket.
Sorry, the single square bracket.
The double square bracket,
which we saw in the previous video,
and there's the dollar sign.
So the sing, the basic kind of principles
to remember here is that the single
square bracket always returns an object
of the same class as the original.
So the subset a vector,
you're going to get back a vector.
If you subset a list,
you're going to get back a list.
Any time you used the single bracket
operator to subset an object,
you'll get the same,
an object of the same class back.
si, furthermore the single
bracket operator can be used to
select more than one element of an object.
With one ex,
exception that we'll get to later.
But double bracket operator is used
to extract elements of a list or
a data frame.
It can only be used to exa,
extract a single element and.
Of that object, either the list or
the data frame.
And the class of the returned object will
not necessarily be a list or a data frame.
So the idea with the double bracket
operator is that, remember that lists can,
can, can hold things that
are of many different classes.
They don't all have to be the same.
So, the first element might be a vec
a numeric vector, the second element might
be a data frame, the third element
might be a complex vector, et cetera.
And so when you use the double bracket
operator to extract an element of a list,
the oh, the object that comes back maybe,
may not be a list, it may be an object
of a totally different class.
So that's what the double
brack operator is useful for.
The dollar sign is used to extract
elements of a list, again of a list or
data frame that have a name.
Very similar objects can have names and
the reason,
one of the reasons you've
used names in an object is so
that you can reference elements of
the object by the different names.
Otherwise the, the semantics of the dollar
sign are similar to the double bracket in
the sense that when you use the dollar
sign to extract an element of
an object it may or may not be of
the same class as the original object.
So, here is the first,
the first example, a very simple vector,
a character vector called x.
And and
I'm going to use the single bracket
operator to extract the first element.
So here, what I get back is a,
is another character vector with
the single element a in it.
If I, if I use, if I try to
extract the second element of x,
what I would get returned back to me is a
character vector with the element b in it.
I could also extract
a sequence of elements so
if I say, If I, If I want to get
the first four elements of x I can cre,
construct the sequence one through
four and then I get a, b, c, c.
So in these three examples
here what I've done is I,
I, is I subset the vector x using a
numeric index so the numeric index is one,
two or the sequence one through four.
The oth, another type of index that you
can use is the, is a logical index.
So, in this next example here, I'm
going to subset the vector x and I want,
I only want all the elements were,
that are greater than or
equ, sorry,
that are greater than the letter a, right?
So, you might,
it might seem strange to you that
I'm using the greater than sign
with letters instead of numbers but
there is a lexicographical
ordering to the letters, and
all the letters that are greater than
a are letters like b, c, d, e, et cetera.
So what I get returned to me is
a character vector that only
contains the letters
that are greater than a.
So, here I've got b, c, c, and d.
The other thing I can do,
is I can create a logical vector,
which here I call u, which is just
the it's a, it's, it tells it's a true or
false vector, which tells me,
which tells me which elements of
the vector x are greater than a.
So, if I print out u here I can see that
the, the first element is equal to a, so
it's not greater than a.
Then, the next four are greater than a,
but then the last element is equal to a,
so again, that's false.
And so, I can subset the vector
x with this u vector, and
then I get out all the elements
that are greater than a.
So there are two types of
indices that I use here,
one, the first type
with the numeric index.
And the second type was the logical index.